Document Dynamic Task Mapping feature (#344)
astronomer/dag-factory: docs/features/dynamic_tasks.md

# **Dynamic tasks**

DAG Factory supports Airflow’s
[Dynamic Task Mapping](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/authoring-and-scheduling/dynamic-task-mapping.html),

> enabling workflows to dynamically create tasks at runtime. This means the number of tasks does not need to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabling workflows to dynamically create tasks at runtime. This means the number of tasks does not need to be predefined.
```
?

Author: thanks I guess some content got cut out earlier. Refactored it now.

```title="example_dynamic_task_mapping.yml"
--8<-- "dev/dags/example_dynamic_task_mapping.yml"
```

### **Explanation of the Configuration**

1. **`request` Task**:
    - Generates a list of items using the `make_list` function from the [expand_tasks.py](https://github.com/astronomer/dag-factory/blob/main/dev/dags/expand_tasks.py) module.
    - This task serves as the input provider for the dynamically mapped tasks.

2. **`process` Task**:
    - Dynamically generates one task for each item in the list produced by the `request` task.
    - The expand argument is used to create these tasks at runtime, with `request.output` supplying the input list.
    - Additionally, the `partial` argument is used to specify fixed parameters (`op_kwargs`) that are applied to all dynamically generated tasks.

### **How It Works**

- **Dynamic Task Creation**:
    The `expand` keyword allows the process task to spawn multiple tasks at runtime, each processing a single item from
the list output of the `request` task.

- **Fixed Parameters**:
    The partial keyword ensures that common parameters, such as `fixed_param`, are passed to every dynamically created
task instance.

> ### **Benefits of Dynamic Task Mapping with DAG Factory**

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we need **?

Reviewer: same question for other heading too

Author: yeah, maybe we don't need it bold. Removed it from headings. thanks.

# Dynamic tasks

DAG Factory supports Airflow’s
[Dynamic Task Mapping](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/authoring-and-scheduling/dynamic-task-mapping.html),
enabling workflows to dynamically create tasks at runtime.  This approach allows the number of tasks to be determined
during execution, usually based on the outcome of a preceding task, rather than being predefined during DAG authoring.

> 

Reviewer 2: @pankajkoti do you think it would be worth to highlight some of the current limitations?

I tried to raise some of them as part of this PR description:
https://github.com/astronomer/dag-factory/pull/314

> - Assigning multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator
> - Mapping over a task group
> - Transforming expanding data
> - Combining upstream data (aka “zipping”)

Author: Added these, thanks, please check.

- Scalability: Efficiently process large datasets by leveraging Airflow’s parallel execution capabilities.
- Simplicity: Define dynamic workflows declaratively using YAML, minimizing boilerplate code.

### Airflow mapped tasks view

Below you can see list of mapped tasks generated dynamically as part of the `process` task

![example_dynamic_task_mapping.png](../static/example_dynamic_task_mapping.png "Dynamic Task Mapping visualization")

## Advanced Dynamic Task Mapping with DAG Factory

Below, we explain the different methods for defining dynamic task mapping, illustrated by the provided example configuration.

```title="Dynamic Task Mapping advanced usage"
--8<-- "dev/dags/example_taskflow.yml"
```

The above example illustrates below advanced usage of Dynamic Task Mapping using Dag Factory (the callable functions
used in the example are kept in [sample.py](https://github.com/astronomer/dag-factory/blob/main/dev/dags/sample.py)):

1. **Static Input Mapping**

    The task `double_number_with_dynamic_task_mapping_static` shows how dynamic tasks can be created using static lists

> as input. With this three tasks will be created, each processing one number.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
as input. Three tasks are created, each processing one number.
```

2. **Task-Generated Input Mapping**

    The task `double_number_with_dynamic_task_mapping_taskflow` shows how tasks can use outputs from other tasks as

> input for dynamic task mapping. The prefix `+` tells Dag Factory to resolve this value as the task `numbers_list`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
input for dynamic task mapping. The prefix `+` tells DAG Factory to resolve this value as the task `numbers_list`,
```

    The task `multiply_with_multiple_parameters` shows how dynamic task mapping can combine outputs from multiple tasks
as input parameters.

## Named Mapping in Dynamic Tasks with DAG Factory

Starting with Airflow 2.9, the `map_index_template` feature allows for custom mapping name for dynamic tasks based on a
user-defined key. DAG Factory fully supports this feature, enabling users to name tasks dynamically in a meaningful way
during runtime. This can be useful for tracing and debugging tasks.

Below is an example of how to configure and use custom names for mapped tasks

```title="example_map_index_template.yml"
--8<-- "dev/dags/example_map_index_template.yml"
```

### How it works

1. map_index_template:
   Customizes the naming of dynamically mapped tasks using a Jinja2 expression. In this example, it uses
`custom_mapping_key` from the task context to define task names.
2. expand:
   Dynamically generates tasks for each entry in the `full_name` list
     - Lucy Black
     - Vera Santos
     - Marks Spencer
3. Dynamic Task Naming:
   The `custom_mapping_key` is set to the first name of each person, e.g., Lucy, Vera, and Marks using the callable

> function `extract_last_name` is kept in [sample.py](https://github.com/astronomer/dag-factory/blob/main/dev/dags/sample.py)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
function `extract_last_name`. This callable function is kept in [sample.py](https://github.com/astronomer/dag-factory/blob/main/dev/dags/sample.py)
```

### Airflow named mapped tasks view

> The below image shows that the `map_index` gets the first name of the person in the mapped tasks with the above configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The image below shows that the `map_index` gets the first name of the person in the mapped tasks with the above configuration.
```
